README.md, before:

# Open-3D-Surround-View

This repository contains a comprehensive suite of tools for **Automated Fisheye Camera Calibration** and **Surround-View Monitor (AVM) Simulation**. It provides a complete end-to-end pipeline: starting from rendering synthetic calibration checkerboards in Blender, to calculating high-precision intrinsic (K and D) and extrinsic (rvec, tvec, Euler Angles) camera parameters using OpenCV, and rigorously verifying the results through mathematical reprojection error metrics.

## 🌟 Key Features
- 🤖 **Automated Render Pipeline**: Programmatically generate simulated chessboard images inside Blender from multiple perspectives to ensure robust calibration data.
- 📐 **Fisheye Lens Model**: Fully supports OpenCV's robust equidistant (fisheye) distortion model for ultra-wide lenses.
- 🧭 **ISO 8855 Automotive Standard**: All 3D math and extracted Euler angles natively adhere to the standard vehicle coordinate system (X=Forward, Y=Left, Z=Up).
- 📊 **Precision Verification**: Built-in verification scripts analyze sub-pixel mean reprojection error and generate visual corner overlays to guarantee mathematical accuracy.
- 💾 **Multi-Format Export**: Saves all camera parameters in accessible `.npz` (NumPy) formats and `.xml` for seamless integration into OpenCV/C++ environments.
- 🏗 **Industrial Structure**: Clean, modular separation between Blender simulation scripts, Python camera calibration logic, and organized data storage paths.

---

## ⚡ Quick Start: Zero Friction Onboarding (Docker)

AVM projects often suffer from dependency hell (OpenCV versions, NumPy conflicts, missing Blender binaries). We solved this. You can run the entire pipeline instantly without installing anything locally:

```bash
# 1. Build the isolated environment
docker build -t open3dsv .

# 2. Launch the interactive container
docker run -it -v $(pwd):/workspace/open3dsv open3dsv
```
*(Alternatively, just run `docker compose run --rm avm_container bash`). The container automatically mounts your host directory, meaning any `.png` heatmaps or `.obj` 3D bowls generated inside Docker will immediately appear on your Mac/Windows host for easy viewing!*

---

## 🧭 Coordinate System (ISO 8855)

The entire calibration pipeline, 3D math, and exported variables adhere strictly to the **ISO 8855 Automotive Standard (Right-Handed, Z-Up)**:
- **+X Axis**: Points **Forward** (Through the vehicle's front windshield)
- **+Y Axis**: Points **Left** (Through the driver's side door)
- **+Z Axis**: Points **Up** (Through the roof)

Euler angles (Yaw, Pitch, Roll) extracted from `calibrate_extrinsic.py` are natively aligned to `ZYX` intrinsic automotive rotations.

## 📂 Directory Structure

```text
/workspaces/AVM/
├── docs/                                   # Theory, logic, and mathematics documentation
│   ├── 01_camera_calibration.md
│   ├── 02_bev_2d_mapping.md
│   ├── 03_bowl_3d_projection.md
│   └── 04_evaluation_metrics.md
├── scripts/
│   ├── simulation/
│   │   ├── capture_intrinsic.py            # Renders chessboard images for intrinsic calibration
│   │   ├── capture_extrinsic.py            # Captures images for extrinsic calibration
│   │   └── preview_3d_bowl.py              # Opens Blender specifically to view Z-up generated meshes
│   ├── bowl_3d/
│   │   ├── build_bowl.py                   # Constructs clean, mathematical 3D Bowl topology (`avm_pure_bowl.obj`)
│   │   ├── stitching_bowl.py               # Calculates exact physical Extrinsic physics for curved 3D walls
│   │   └── render_bowl.py                  # Simulated Real-time ECU dashboard rendering engine (13+ FPS)
│   ├── calibration/
│       ├── calibrate_intrinsic.py          # Calculates intrinsic K and D matrices
│       ├── evaluate_intrinsic.py           # Evaluates undistortion using K and D and curvature variance
│       ├── calibrate_extrinsic.py          # Calculates extrinsic rvec and tvec matrices
│       └── evaluate_extrinsic.py           # Evaluates extrinsics via 3D reprojection error
│   └── bev_2d/
│       ├── stitching_bev.py                # Maps logical BEV and exports optimized map/weight LUTs
│       ├── render_bev.py                   # Real-time simulation loop that loads LUTs to stitch LIVE frames
│       └── evaluate_bev.py                 # Evaluates stitching alignment via photometric error
├── scenes/
│   └── avm_v1.blend                        # Vehicle scene with cameras
│   └── calib_intrinsic.blend               # Dedicated calibration scene
├── data/ (Git ignored)
│   ├── calibration/
│   │   ├── intrinsic/
│   │   │   ├── images/                     # Input images for intrinsic calibration
│   │   │   ├── debug/                      # Debug visualizations (corners, plumb-lines)
│   │   │   └── params/                     # Final K and D matrices (.npz)
│   │   └── extrinsic/
│   │       ├── images/                     # Input images from the 4 fisheye cameras
│   │       ├── debug/                      # Visual reprojection error overlays
│   │       └── params/                     # Final ZYX rot and trans matrices (.npz)
│   ├── bev_2d/
│   │   ├── debug/                          # Photometric error heatmaps
│   │   ├── luts/                           # Production Look-Up Tables for real-time BEV mapping
│   │   ├── bev.png                         # Perfect high-res stitched 2D ground plane
│   │   └── realtime_demo_bev.png           # Simulated 2D dashboard UX output
│   └── bowl_3d/
│       ├── luts/                           # Physical Extrinsic LUTs for 3D topology projection
│       ├── avm_pure_bowl.obj               # Mathematically pure 3D Bowl Mesh (Polar coordinates)
│       ├── bowl_texture.png                # Distorted 2D mapped texture array (for 3D blending)
│       └── realtime_demo_bowl.png          # Real-time rendered 3D ECU dashboard UI
└── README.md
```

---

## 📖 Technical Documentation

For developers seeking to understand the background physics, mathematical models, and architectural decisions powering this pipeline, please refer to the dedicated theory guides:

1. [Calibration Theory & Coordinate Systems](docs/01_camera_calibration.md): Explains ISO 8855 standard geometry, fisheye intrinsic mathematical formulation, and extrinsic point-matching physics.
2. [2D BEV Mapping & Look-Up Tables (LUT)](docs/02_bev_2d_mapping.md): Details the reverse-projection math from the flat Z=0 ground plane and the hardware-accelerated Extrinsic LUT optimizations used for real-time dashboard ECU operation.
3. [3D Bowl Projection Architecture](docs/03_bowl_3d_projection.md): Mathematically details the industry transition from flat representations to curved 3D topology (Z > 0 walls) to solve Spider-Leg corner stretching and Parallax flat-mat ghosting.
4. [Evaluation Metrics & Precision](docs/04_evaluation_metrics.md): Breaks down the "Holy Trinity" of calibration proofs including Plumb-Line Curvature, Extrinsic Sub-Pixel Reprojection, and overlapping Photometric Area tracking.

---

## 🚀 Workflow

The AVM pipeline is structurally split into 4 logical phases: **Lens Calibration (Intrinsic)**, **Cameras Assembly (Extrinsic)**, **2D BEV Mapping**, and **3D Bowl Projection**.

---

### Phase 1: Intrinsic Lens Calibration
*Determining the internal physical profile of the fisheye lenses (`K` and `D` matrices).*

**Step 1.1: Capture Intrinsic Images (Synthetic)**
Renders 15 different perspectives of a checkerboard. Run this inside a Blender instance.
```bash
blender -b scenes/calib_intrinsic.blend -P scripts/simulation/capture_intrinsic.py
```

**Step 1.2: Run Intrinsics Calibration**
Processes the images and computes the intrinsic matrix `K` and distortion `D`.
```bash
python3 scripts/calibration/calibrate_intrinsic.py
```
*Outputs: `data/calibration/intrinsic/params/intrinsic_params.npz` and `intrinsic_params.xml`.*

**Step 1.3: Evaluate the Intrinsic Calibration**
Checks the quality of the calibration by undistorting a test image and calculating plumb-line curvature variance.
```bash
python3 scripts/calibration/evaluate_intrinsic.py
```
*Review the result in `data/calibration/intrinsic/debug/test_plumbline.png`.*

---

### Phase 2: Extrinsic System Calibration
*Determining the physical mounting position and orientation of the cameras on the vehicle (`rvec` and `tvec`)*.

**Step 2.1: Capture Extrinsic Images**
Renders the 4 vehicle cameras positioned around the ISO 8855 extrinsics checkerboard setup.
```bash
blender -b scenes/avm_v1.blend -P scripts/simulation/capture_extrinsic.py
```

**Step 2.2: Run Extrinsic Calibration**
Calculates the physical translation and rotation for each camera.
```bash
python3 scripts/calibration/calibrate_extrinsic.py
```
*Outputs: Per-camera `.npz` and `.xml` files in `data/calibration/extrinsic/params/`.*

**Step 2.3: Evaluate Extrinsic Calibration**
Mathematically projects the 3D world points back onto the images to calculate sub-pixel reprojection error metrics.
```bash
python3 scripts/calibration/evaluate_extrinsic.py
```
*Outputs: Error metrics in terminal and visual overlays in `data/calibration/extrinsic/debug/reproject_*.png`.*

---

### Phase 3: 2D BEV Mapping & Real-Time Simulation
*Mapping the calibrated cameras onto a unified Ground Plane (Z=0) and optimizing for 60FPS dashboard deployment.*

**Step 3.1: Generate BEV Mapping (Look-Up Tables)**
Maps all 4 fisheye cameras onto a unified 3D physical ground plane to calculate rendering coordinates & alpha weights.
Executes the heavy math exactly once, and stores the rulesets (`.npz` LUTs) to memory.
```bash
python3 scripts/bev_2d/stitching_bev.py
```
*Outputs: Optimized `lut_{Cam}.npz` pre-calculated matrices inside `data/bev_2d/luts/`.*

**Step 3.2: Simulate Real-Time BEV Rendering**
Wraps the actual real-world loop. Loads the pre-computed Look-Up Tables into RAM, ingests live camera frames, and instantly maps/stitches the `Bird's-Eye View` composite simulating high FPS performance tracking.
```bash
python3 scripts/bev_2d/render_bev.py
```
*Outputs: Evaluated python runtime metrics (e.g. `~14 FPS`) and the final `realtime_demo_bev.png`.*

**Step 3.3: Evaluate Stitching Alignment**
Mathematically crops and compares shared overlapping sightlines to quantify Extrinsic photometric error.
```bash
python3 scripts/bev_2d/evaluate_bev.py
```
*Outputs: MAE and RMSE error metrics per corner, and a colorized visual heatmap in `data/bev_2d/debug/`.*

---

### Phase 4: 3D Bowl Projection & Extrusion
*Elevating the flat math into a 3D topology to eliminate stretching and parallax ghosting.*

**Step 4.1: Generate Perfect 3D Bowl Geometry**
Mathematically constructs a flawless Z-up Polar 3D Bowl topology based on ISO 8855 Coordinate constraints without Spider Leg stretching or Parallax ghosting.
```bash
python3 scripts/bowl_3d/build_bowl.py
```
*Outputs: Clean pure mesh `avm_pure_bowl.obj` (with UV mappings) and `avm_pure_bowl.mtl`.*

**Step 4.2: Calculate Extrinsic UV Mappings for the 3D Bowl**
Reruns the rigorous 3D world physics engine. Unlike the flat 2D projection, it accounts for the actual curvature Z-Height to project physical wall textures flawlessly outwards into the fisheye cameras without severe stretching.
```bash
python3 scripts/bowl_3d/stitching_bowl.py
```
*Outputs: Advanced alpha-blended UV arrays (`lut_bowl_{Cam}.npz`) and a `bowl_texture.png` preview.*

**Step 4.3: Simulate Real-Time 3D ECU Rendering**
Ingests the newly calculated 3D Extrinsic LUTs and spins up a high-performance vector rendering loop simulating the dashboard display.
```bash
python3 scripts/bowl_3d/render_bowl.py
```
*Outputs: Simulated runtime metrics (~15 FPS natively in Python) and `realtime_demo_bowl.png`.*

**Step 4.4: Preview the generated 3D Bowl Array in 3D Space**
Opens a Blender instance and imports the geometry strictly preserving Z-Up formatting, auto-connecting the material shaders to visually verify the mathematical projection perfection on the 3D model.
```bash
blender -P scripts/simulation/preview_3d_bowl.py
```

---

## 🛠 Running Environment
- **Docker**: The project is optimized for VS Code DevContainers.
- **Blender**: Requires `blender` executable in PATH (version 3.6+ recommended).
- **Python**: Requires `opencv-python` and `numpy`.

---

## ⚙️ Maintenance
- To add a new camera, update the `cameras` list in `capture_extrinsic.py`.
- To change the checkerboard size, update `CHECKERBOARD` constant in `calibrate_intrinsic.py` and `calibrate_extrinsic.py`.

Commit message:

build(docker): Fetch corresponding Blender LTS arch
M-Series Mac users running `docker build` experienced rosetta failures because the Dockerfile blindly downloaded linux-x64.

Added a uname -m check to dynamically fetch the blender-3.6.5-linux-arm64 or x64 binary to preserve Blender 3.6 LTS.

README.md, after:

# Open-3D-Surround-View

This repository contains a comprehensive suite of tools for **Automated Fisheye Camera Calibration** and **Surround-View Monitor (AVM) Simulation**. It provides a complete end-to-end pipeline: starting from rendering synthetic calibration checkerboards in Blender, to calculating high-precision intrinsic (K and D) and extrinsic (rvec, tvec, Euler Angles) camera parameters using OpenCV, and rigorously verifying the results through mathematical reprojection error metrics.

## 🌟 Key Features
- 🤖 **Automated Render Pipeline**: Programmatically generate simulated chessboard images inside Blender from multiple perspectives to ensure robust calibration data.
- 📐 **Fisheye Lens Model**: Fully supports OpenCV's robust equidistant (fisheye) distortion model for ultra-wide lenses.
- 🧭 **ISO 8855 Automotive Standard**: All 3D math and extracted Euler angles natively adhere to the standard vehicle coordinate system (X=Forward, Y=Left, Z=Up).
- 📊 **Precision Verification**: Built-in verification scripts analyze sub-pixel mean reprojection error and generate visual corner overlays to guarantee mathematical accuracy.
- 💾 **Multi-Format Export**: Saves all camera parameters in accessible `.npz` (NumPy) formats and `.xml` for seamless integration into OpenCV/C++ environments.
- 🏗 **Industrial Structure**: Clean, modular separation between Blender simulation scripts, Python camera calibration logic, and organized data storage paths.

---

## ⚡ Quick Start

No need to fight OpenCV versions, configure NumPy, or capture your own fisheye images. Just run 3 lines of code:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/nick8592/Open-3D-Surround-View.git
cd Open-3D-Surround-View
python3 demo/demo.py
```

*This will instantly parse the built-in `data/sample/` pre-calibrated fisheye images, inject the mathematics, and generate your `demo/demo_bev.png` (2D Ground) and `demo/demo_bowl.png` (3D Curved Topology, rendered by Python AVM ECU Logic) directly in the newly created isolated demo folder!*

**(Optional) Full Docker Environment:**
If you want to run the entire Phase 1-4 calibration & math codebase without dependency conflicts (Blender 3.6 LTS + OpenCV + NumPy included):
```bash
docker build -t open3dsv .
docker run -it -v $(pwd):/workspace/AVM open3dsv
```
*(Alternatively, just run `docker compose run --rm avm_container bash`). The container automatically mounts your host directory, meaning any `.png` heatmaps or `.obj` 3D bowls generated inside Docker will immediately appear on your Mac/Windows host for easy viewing!*

---

## 🧭 Coordinate System (ISO 8855)

The entire calibration pipeline, 3D math, and exported variables adhere strictly to the **ISO 8855 Automotive Standard (Right-Handed, Z-Up)**:
- **+X Axis**: Points **Forward** (Through the vehicle's front windshield)
- **+Y Axis**: Points **Left** (Through the driver's side door)
- **+Z Axis**: Points **Up** (Through the roof)

Euler angles (Yaw, Pitch, Roll) extracted from `calibrate_extrinsic.py` are natively aligned to `ZYX` intrinsic automotive rotations.

## 📂 Directory Structure

```text
/workspaces/AVM/
├── docs/                                   # Theory, logic, and mathematics documentation
│   ├── 01_camera_calibration.md
│   ├── 02_bev_2d_mapping.md
│   ├── 03_bowl_3d_projection.md
│   └── 04_evaluation_metrics.md
├── scripts/
│   ├── simulation/
│   │   ├── capture_intrinsic.py            # Renders chessboard images for intrinsic calibration
│   │   ├── capture_extrinsic.py            # Captures images for extrinsic calibration
│   │   └── preview_3d_bowl.py              # Opens Blender specifically to view Z-up generated meshes
│   ├── bowl_3d/
│   │   ├── build_bowl.py                   # Constructs clean, mathematical 3D Bowl topology (`avm_pure_bowl.obj`)
│   │   ├── stitching_bowl.py               # Calculates exact physical Extrinsic physics for curved 3D walls
│   │   └── render_bowl.py                  # Simulated Real-time ECU dashboard rendering engine (13+ FPS)
│   ├── calibration/
│       ├── calibrate_intrinsic.py          # Calculates intrinsic K and D matrices
│       ├── evaluate_intrinsic.py           # Evaluates undistortion using K and D and curvature variance
│       ├── calibrate_extrinsic.py          # Calculates extrinsic rvec and tvec matrices
│       └── evaluate_extrinsic.py           # Evaluates extrinsics via 3D reprojection error
│   └── bev_2d/
│       ├── stitching_bev.py                # Maps logical BEV and exports optimized map/weight LUTs
│       ├── render_bev.py                   # Real-time simulation loop that loads LUTs to stitch LIVE frames
│       └── evaluate_bev.py                 # Evaluates stitching alignment via photometric error
├── scenes/
│   └── avm_v1.blend                        # Vehicle scene with cameras
│   └── calib_intrinsic.blend               # Dedicated calibration scene
├── data/ (Git ignored)
│   ├── calibration/
│   │   ├── intrinsic/
│   │   │   ├── images/                     # Input images for intrinsic calibration
│   │   │   ├── debug/                      # Debug visualizations (corners, plumb-lines)
│   │   │   └── params/                     # Final K and D matrices (.npz)
│   │   └── extrinsic/
│   │       ├── images/                     # Input images from the 4 fisheye cameras
│   │       ├── debug/                      # Visual reprojection error overlays
│   │       └── params/                     # Final ZYX rot and trans matrices (.npz)
│   ├── bev_2d/
│   │   ├── debug/                          # Photometric error heatmaps
│   │   ├── luts/                           # Production Look-Up Tables for real-time BEV mapping
│   │   ├── bev.png                         # Perfect high-res stitched 2D ground plane
│   │   └── realtime_demo_bev.png           # Simulated 2D dashboard UX output
│   └── bowl_3d/
│       ├── luts/                           # Physical Extrinsic LUTs for 3D topology projection
│       ├── avm_pure_bowl.obj               # Mathematically pure 3D Bowl Mesh (Polar coordinates)
│       ├── bowl_texture.png                # Distorted 2D mapped texture array (for 3D blending)
│       └── realtime_demo_bowl.png          # Real-time rendered 3D ECU dashboard UI
└── README.md
```

---

## 📖 Technical Documentation

For developers seeking to understand the background physics, mathematical models, and architectural decisions powering this pipeline, please refer to the dedicated theory guides:

1. [Calibration Theory & Coordinate Systems](docs/01_camera_calibration.md): Explains ISO 8855 standard geometry, fisheye intrinsic mathematical formulation, and extrinsic point-matching physics.
2. [2D BEV Mapping & Look-Up Tables (LUT)](docs/02_bev_2d_mapping.md): Details the reverse-projection math from the flat Z=0 ground plane and the hardware-accelerated Extrinsic LUT optimizations used for real-time dashboard ECU operation.
3. [3D Bowl Projection Architecture](docs/03_bowl_3d_projection.md): Mathematically details the industry transition from flat representations to curved 3D topology (Z > 0 walls) to solve Spider-Leg corner stretching and Parallax flat-mat ghosting.
4. [Evaluation Metrics & Precision](docs/04_evaluation_metrics.md): Breaks down the "Holy Trinity" of calibration proofs including Plumb-Line Curvature, Extrinsic Sub-Pixel Reprojection, and overlapping Photometric Area tracking.

---

## 🚀 Workflow

The AVM pipeline is structurally split into 4 logical phases: **Lens Calibration (Intrinsic)**, **Cameras Assembly (Extrinsic)**, **2D BEV Mapping**, and **3D Bowl Projection**.

---

### Phase 1: Intrinsic Lens Calibration
*Determining the internal physical profile of the fisheye lenses (`K` and `D` matrices).*

**Step 1.1: Capture Intrinsic Images (Synthetic)**
Renders 15 different perspectives of a checkerboard. Run this inside a Blender instance.
```bash
blender -b scenes/calib_intrinsic.blend -P scripts/simulation/capture_intrinsic.py
```

**Step 1.2: Run Intrinsics Calibration**
Processes the images and computes the intrinsic matrix `K` and distortion `D`.
```bash
python3 scripts/calibration/calibrate_intrinsic.py
```
*Outputs: `data/calibration/intrinsic/params/intrinsic_params.npz` and `intrinsic_params.xml`.*

**Step 1.3: Evaluate the Intrinsic Calibration**
Checks the quality of the calibration by undistorting a test image and calculating plumb-line curvature variance.
```bash
python3 scripts/calibration/evaluate_intrinsic.py
```
*Review the result in `data/calibration/intrinsic/debug/test_plumbline.png`.*

---

### Phase 2: Extrinsic System Calibration
*Determining the physical mounting position and orientation of the cameras on the vehicle (`rvec` and `tvec`)*.

**Step 2.1: Capture Extrinsic Images**
Renders the 4 vehicle cameras positioned around the ISO 8855 extrinsics checkerboard setup.
```bash
blender -b scenes/avm_v1.blend -P scripts/simulation/capture_extrinsic.py
```

**Step 2.2: Run Extrinsic Calibration**
Calculates the physical translation and rotation for each camera.
```bash
python3 scripts/calibration/calibrate_extrinsic.py
```
*Outputs: Per-camera `.npz` and `.xml` files in `data/calibration/extrinsic/params/`.*

**Step 2.3: Evaluate Extrinsic Calibration**
Mathematically projects the 3D world points back onto the images to calculate sub-pixel reprojection error metrics.
```bash
python3 scripts/calibration/evaluate_extrinsic.py
```
*Outputs: Error metrics in terminal and visual overlays in `data/calibration/extrinsic/debug/reproject_*.png`.*

---

### Phase 3: 2D BEV Mapping & Real-Time Simulation
*Mapping the calibrated cameras onto a unified Ground Plane (Z=0) and optimizing for 60FPS dashboard deployment.*

**Step 3.1: Generate BEV Mapping (Look-Up Tables)**
Maps all 4 fisheye cameras onto a unified 3D physical ground plane to calculate rendering coordinates & alpha weights.
Executes the heavy math exactly once, and stores the rulesets (`.npz` LUTs) to memory.
```bash
python3 scripts/bev_2d/stitching_bev.py
```
*Outputs: Optimized `lut_{Cam}.npz` pre-calculated matrices inside `data/bev_2d/luts/`.*

**Step 3.2: Simulate Real-Time BEV Rendering**
Wraps the actual real-world loop. Loads the pre-computed Look-Up Tables into RAM, ingests live camera frames, and instantly maps/stitches the `Bird's-Eye View` composite simulating high FPS performance tracking.
```bash
python3 scripts/bev_2d/render_bev.py
```
*Outputs: Evaluated python runtime metrics (e.g. `~14 FPS`) and the final `realtime_demo_bev.png`.*

**Step 3.3: Evaluate Stitching Alignment**
Mathematically crops and compares shared overlapping sightlines to quantify Extrinsic photometric error.
```bash
python3 scripts/bev_2d/evaluate_bev.py
```
*Outputs: MAE and RMSE error metrics per corner, and a colorized visual heatmap in `data/bev_2d/debug/`.*

---

### Phase 4: 3D Bowl Projection & Extrusion
*Elevating the flat math into a 3D topology to eliminate stretching and parallax ghosting.*

**Step 4.1: Generate Perfect 3D Bowl Geometry**
Mathematically constructs a flawless Z-up Polar 3D Bowl topology based on ISO 8855 Coordinate constraints without Spider Leg stretching or Parallax ghosting.
```bash
python3 scripts/bowl_3d/build_bowl.py
```
*Outputs: Clean pure mesh `avm_pure_bowl.obj` (with UV mappings) and `avm_pure_bowl.mtl`.*

**Step 4.2: Calculate Extrinsic UV Mappings for the 3D Bowl**
Reruns the rigorous 3D world physics engine. Unlike the flat 2D projection, it accounts for the actual curvature Z-Height to project physical wall textures flawlessly outwards into the fisheye cameras without severe stretching.
```bash
python3 scripts/bowl_3d/stitching_bowl.py
```
*Outputs: Advanced alpha-blended UV arrays (`lut_bowl_{Cam}.npz`) and a `bowl_texture.png` preview.*

**Step 4.3: Simulate Real-Time 3D ECU Rendering**
Ingests the newly calculated 3D Extrinsic LUTs and spins up a high-performance vector rendering loop simulating the dashboard display.
```bash
python3 scripts/bowl_3d/render_bowl.py
```
*Outputs: Simulated runtime metrics (~15 FPS natively in Python) and `realtime_demo_bowl.png`.*

**Step 4.4: Preview the generated 3D Bowl Array in 3D Space**
Opens a Blender instance and imports the geometry strictly preserving Z-Up formatting, auto-connecting the material shaders to visually verify the mathematical projection perfection on the 3D model.
```bash
blender -P scripts/simulation/preview_3d_bowl.py
```

---

## 🛠 Running Environment
- **Docker**: The project is optimized for VS Code DevContainers.
- **Blender**: Requires `blender` executable in PATH (version 3.6+ recommended).
- **Python**: Requires `opencv-python` and `numpy`.

---

## ⚙️ Maintenance
- To add a new camera, update the `cameras` list in `capture_extrinsic.py`.
- To change the checkerboard size, update `CHECKERBOARD` constant in `calibrate_intrinsic.py` and `calibrate_extrinsic.py`.
